README.md, before:

# Magento Cloud Docker - Community Edition

## Versions
Magento: `2.4.5-p1 Community Edition`  
Magento Cloud Docker: `1.3.4`

## Prerequisities:
- Docker
- Mutagen
- Magento's [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html)

## (Apple Silicon Only) Build docker images locally
1. Clone magento cloud docker repository.
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-docker.git
    ```
2. Change current working directory to magento cloud docker.
    ```bash
    cd magento-cloud-docker
    ```
3. Build docker images.
    ```docker
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4 ./images/php/8.1-cli

    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-opensearch:1.2-1.3.4 ./images/opensearch/1.2
    
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-nginx:1.19-1.3.4 ./images/nginx/1.19
    
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish:6.6-1.3.4 ./images/varnish/6.6
    ```

## Install Magento Cloud Docker

### Initialise the project
1. Create directory where you want to install Magento Cloud Docker.
2. Change to the new project directory.
3. Create composer project based on `magento/project-community-edition`.
   Replace `<public-key>:<private-key>` with your [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html)
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer create-project --repository-url=https://<public-key>:<private-key>@repo.magento.com/ magento/project-community-edition=2.4.5-p1 /m2
    ```
4. Add your [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html) to the auth.json file.
    ```json
    {
        "http-basic": {
            "repo.magento.com": {
                "username": "<public-key>",
                "password": "<private-key>"
            }
        }
    }
    ```
5. Add the ece-tools and Cloud Docker for Commerce packages.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer require --working-dir=/m2 --no-update --dev magento/ece-tools magento/magento-cloud-docker
    ```
6. Create the default configuration source file, .magento.docker.yml to build the Docker containers for the local environment.
    ```yml
    name: magento
    system:
        mode: 'developer' 
    services:
        php:
            version: '8.1'
            extensions:
                enabled:
                    - xsl
                    - json
                    - redis
        mysql:
            version: '10.4'
            image: 'mariadb'
        redis:
            version: '6.0'
            image: 'redis'
        opensearch:
            version: '1.2'
            image: 'magento/magento-cloud-docker-opensearch'
    hooks:
        build: |
            set -e
            php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/build/generate.xml
            php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/build/transfer.xml
        deploy: 'php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/deploy.xml'
        post_deploy: 'php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/post-deploy.xml'
    mounts:
        var:
            path: 'var'
        app-etc:
            path: 'app/etc'
        pub-media:
            path: 'pub/media'
        pub-static:
            path: 'pub/static'
   ```
7. Update project.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer update --working-dir=/m2
    ```
8. In your local project root, generate the Docker Compose configuration file with mutagen used for synchronizing data in Docker.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" /m2/vendor/bin/ece-docker build:compose --mode="developer" --sync-engine="mutagen"
    ```
9.  Copy the default configuration DIST file to your custom configuration file and make any necessary changes.
    ```bash
    cp .docker/config.php.dist .docker/config.php
    ```
10. Build files to containers and run in the background.
    ```docker
    docker-compose up -d
    ```
11. Start the file synchronisation.
    ```bash
    bash ./mutagen.sh
    ```
12. Make sure file synchronisation has completed.
    ```mutagen
    mutagen sync list
    ```
    Check for status of each sync, when finished it will say under each sync session:
    ```
    Status: Watching for changes
    ```
### Install Magento Cloud Docker
1. Run initial `setup:upgrade`
    ```docker
    docker-compose run deploy bin/magento setup:upgrade
    ```
2. Deploy Adobe Commerce in the Docker container.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy cloud-deploy
    ```
3. Run post-deploy hooks.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy cloud-post-deploy
    ```
4. Configure and connect Varnish.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command config:set system/full_page_cache/caching_application 2 --lock-env
    
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command setup:config:set --http-cache-hosts=varnish
    ```
    Answer `Y` to the following prompt:  
    ```
    Overwrite the existing configuration for http-cache-hosts?[Y/n]
    ```
4. Clear the cache.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command cache:clean
    ```

Access the local storefront by opening the following URL in a browser:  
https://magento2.docker

Access the local admin dashboard by opening the following URL in a browser:
https://magento2.docker/admin

## (Optional) Install Sample Data
```docker
docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command sampledata:deploy

docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command setup:upgrade
```
----
Based on https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/cloud-tools/docker/deploy/developer-mode/

Commit message:

Add recovery method when running initial cloud-deploy

README.md, after:

# Magento Cloud Docker - Community Edition

## Versions
Magento: `2.4.5-p1 Community Edition`  
Magento Cloud Docker: `1.3.4`

## Prerequisities:
- Docker
- Mutagen
- Magento's [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html)

## (Apple Silicon Only) Build docker images locally
1. Clone magento cloud docker repository.
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-docker.git
    ```
2. Change current working directory to magento cloud docker.
    ```bash
    cd magento-cloud-docker
    ```
3. Build docker images.
    ```docker
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4 ./images/php/8.1-cli

    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-opensearch:1.2-1.3.4 ./images/opensearch/1.2
    
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-nginx:1.19-1.3.4 ./images/nginx/1.19
    
    docker image build --platform=linux/arm64/v8 -t magento/magento-cloud-docker-varnish:6.6-1.3.4 ./images/varnish/6.6
    ```

## Install Magento Cloud Docker

### Initialise the project
1. Create directory where you want to install Magento Cloud Docker.
2. Change to the new project directory.
3. Create composer project based on `magento/project-community-edition`.
   Replace `<public-key>:<private-key>` with your [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html)
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer create-project --repository-url=https://<public-key>:<private-key>@repo.magento.com/ magento/project-community-edition=2.4.5-p1 /m2
    ```
4. Add your [access credentials](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/installation-guide/prerequisites/authentication-keys.html) to the auth.json file.
    ```json
    {
        "http-basic": {
            "repo.magento.com": {
                "username": "<public-key>",
                "password": "<private-key>"
            }
        }
    }
    ```
5. Add the ece-tools and Cloud Docker for Commerce packages.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer require --working-dir=/m2 --no-update --dev magento/ece-tools magento/magento-cloud-docker
    ```
6. Create the default configuration source file, .magento.docker.yml to build the Docker containers for the local environment.
    ```yml
    name: magento
    system:
        mode: 'developer' 
    services:
        php:
            version: '8.1'
            extensions:
                enabled:
                    - xsl
                    - json
                    - redis
        mysql:
            version: '10.4'
            image: 'mariadb'
        redis:
            version: '6.0'
            image: 'redis'
        opensearch:
            version: '1.2'
            image: 'magento/magento-cloud-docker-opensearch'
    hooks:
        build: |
            set -e
            php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/build/generate.xml
            php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/build/transfer.xml
        deploy: 'php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/deploy.xml'
        post_deploy: 'php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools run scenario/post-deploy.xml'
    mounts:
        var:
            path: 'var'
        app-etc:
            path: 'app/etc'
        pub-media:
            path: 'pub/media'
        pub-static:
            path: 'pub/static'
   ```
7. Update project.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" composer update --working-dir=/m2
    ```
8. In your local project root, generate the Docker Compose configuration file with mutagen used for synchronizing data in Docker.
    ```docker
    docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/m2 "magento/magento-cloud-docker-php:8.1-cli-1.3.4" /m2/vendor/bin/ece-docker build:compose --mode="developer" --sync-engine="mutagen"
    ```
9.  Copy the default configuration DIST file to your custom configuration file and make any necessary changes.
    ```bash
    cp .docker/config.php.dist .docker/config.php
    ```
10. Build files to containers and run in the background.
    ```docker
    docker-compose up -d
    ```
11. Start the file synchronisation.
    ```bash
    bash ./mutagen.sh
    ```
12. Make sure file synchronisation has completed.
    ```mutagen
    mutagen sync list
    ```
    Check for status of each sync, when finished it will say under each sync session:
    ```
    Status: Watching for changes
    ```
### Install Magento Cloud Docker
1. Deploy Adobe Commerce in the Docker container.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy cloud-deploy
    ```
    If you come across an error during a deployment e.g. `Fatal error: Uncaught Exception: User Error:...` then you will need to run:
    ```docker
    docker-compose run deploy bin/magento setup:upgrade
    ```
    And then re-run the original `cloud-deploy` command.
    This is due to this [issue](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-docker/issues/302) in Magento Cloud Docker.
2. Run post-deploy hooks.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy cloud-post-deploy
    ```
3. Configure and connect Varnish.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command config:set system/full_page_cache/caching_application 2 --lock-env
    
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command setup:config:set --http-cache-hosts=varnish
    ```
    Answer `Y` to the following prompt:  
    ```
    Overwrite the existing configuration for http-cache-hosts?[Y/n]
    ```
4. Clear the cache.
    ```docker
    docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command cache:clean
    ```

Access the local storefront by opening the following URL in a browser:  
https://magento2.docker

Access the local admin dashboard by opening the following URL in a browser:
https://magento2.docker/admin

## (Optional) Install Sample Data
```docker
docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command sampledata:deploy

docker-compose run --rm deploy magento-command setup:upgrade
```
----
Based on https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/cloud-tools/docker/deploy/developer-mode/
